
                                gel it!


                   easy ways to be a spectacular cook


—new 30-minute gel

—gels clear and airy

—design your own: main dishes • salads and desserts

—party snacks any day

—diet and beauty tips


  A MODERN GUIDE TO GELATINE COOKERY
  EDUCATIONAL DEPT. KNOX GELATINE, INC.
  JOHNSTOWN, N. Y.

    [Illustration: gel it!]




                            gel it! in style


Here is your guide to new style in cooking, adding form to dishes,
setting off flavors, colors and textures to your taste—and in new quick
time, too. Amazing? Read on.

You’ll find easy ways to chill a shapely salad, “bake” a handsome
refrigerator cake or pie, mold a spectacular dessert or heap it high in
a serving dish. As you cook your way through these pages, you’ll find
that you have mastered more than one dish at a time. These recipes are
patterns as convenient as a basic dress; you can vary them your
individual way. Choose the foods and flavors you prefer or have on hand,
and gel them in style—_your_ style.

What is gelatine? Unflavored gelatine is colorless, odorless, and
tasteless. Knox Gelatine is a granulated protein substance derived from
the long bones of cattle. It is pure protein consisting of 17 amino
acids ... among them 7 out of the 8 essential to good diet.
(Commercially flavored gelatines, on the other hand, consist of ⅞ sugar
and flavorings and only ⅛ gelatine.) Unflavored gelatine takes on the
flavors and colors you choose, when combined in dishes to your taste.
For extra style in a dish, gel it!


{quick-gel} new 30-minute gel!

Now you can cook the modern way—fast!—with gelatine. The new quick-gel
method takes advantage of modern refrigeration and food products, to
prepare gelatine dishes that are ready to serve minutes after you stir
them together! After gelatine is softened, then dissolved in hot liquid,
add frozen juices, fruits or soups, ice cream or ice cubes as part of
the liquid. The frozen food or cubes will melt and quick-chill the
gelatine, resulting in gels within half an hour! You’ll find new
quick-gel recipes throughout this booklet.




                               • contents


  easy guide to gel cookery                                            3
  gels clear and airy                                                  4
  dessert magic                                                      5-8
  shape a meal (main dishes)                                        9-10
  salads ahead                                                     11-13
  party snacks any day                                                14
  dieters’ tips                                                       15
  the Knox drink                                                      16

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]




                       easy guide to gel cookery
               cooking with gelatine is as easy as 1-2-3.


1 An envelope of gelatine will gel 1 pint of liquid. First, choose the
      liquid you will use—water, juice, broth, milk or other as
      designated in recipes which follow. Sprinkle gelatine from the
      envelope over ½ cup of cold liquid and let stand a few minutes to
      soften. If sugar is to be added, stir sugar with the gelatine
      before you begin. (If 1 tablespoon or more of sugar is added, the
      gelatine-sugar mixture may be softened and dissolved directly in
      hot liquid.)

2 Stir softened gelatine over medium heat until mixture is clear and
      gelatine dissolved, about 2 to 3 minutes. Remove from heat and add
      remaining liquid or, for new quick-gel method, add frozen juice,
      fruit, etc.

3 Pour into mold or serving dish, chill until set. This takes 2 to 4
      hours, or may be cut down to ½ hour or less when made the new
      quick-gel way. Smaller molds set faster.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]




                          gels clear and airy


When gelatine is dissolved in a clear liquid it makes a shimmering clear
gel, with smooth texture. Gels are delicious plain, or you may add
contrast by incorporating solids before the gel is completely set. Or
turn out light and frothy dishes by incorporating air. For a whip,
simply beat any partially set gelatine with a rotary beater, then chill.
Or, add beaten egg whites, whipped cream or whipped evaporated milk, or
such ready-beaten mixtures as mayonnaise and ice cream to make mousses,
creamy molds, and other specialties. Tips to make this easy:


how to beat...

At a slightly thickened consistency, clear gelatine can be turned into
an airy, frothy mixture. Whip the gelatine with rotary or electric
beater until it is light and fluffy, then chill firm. Or add egg whites
and beat all together to make an especially frothy “snow.” (See page 6
for recipes.)


how to set...

To set gelatine, just put the mold in the refrigerator. To add solids,
chill gelatine mixture until slightly thickened, to prevent solids from
rising to the top or sinking to the bottom. When gelatine mixture
reaches the consistency of unbeaten egg white, you can fold in cut-up
drained fruits, vegetables, meats or other solids, whipped milk
(evaporated or nonfat solids) or cream. Then chill.

For an extra-fast set, first put mold in the freezer for 5 minutes. Or,
put bowl or pan of gelatine mixture into a container of ice and water
and stir mixture for 5 minutes, until it begins to thicken. Then chill
in refrigerator.


how to unmold...

Dip mold briefly into warm (not hot!) water just to level of gelatine
mixture. Run the tip of a knife around edge of gelatine. Rinse a serving
plate in cold water (makes it easier to slide mold to center of plate),
place plate on top of the mold, invert plate and mold together, and
shake gently to loosen gelatine. Lift off mold, slide gelatine into
place in center of plate. Presto! A snack or main dish, salad or dessert
with form and style!

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]




                            {D}essert magic


Dessert is often the star of the meal—and you can quickly learn to
select a superb dessert recipe first, then plan a meal which will lead
up to your grand finale.

As you begin to prepare and serve meals, it may seem you need some magic
power to have all dishes and courses ready to serve at the right time. A
gelatine dessert can be your abra-cadabra—prepare it ahead, have it
ready in the refrigerator at serving time.

This advance preparation need no longer require hours of chilling! With
new quick-gel ways of preparing gelatine desserts with frozen foods such
as juices, ice cream and frozen fruits, you can stir together a quick
fruit mold or a berry-cream pie and have it ready to unmold or slice and
serve within minutes! Gelatine captures the full flavor of these
refreshing foods, makes it easier than ever to serve a special dessert.

In selecting a dessert, remember—dessert should complete the meal in a
complementary, contrasting way. Dessert should be light and refreshing
after a lengthy, filling meal; it can be hearty and satisfying when the
meal before has been light. Unflavored gelatine takes on your favorite
flavor in any type of dessert, from feather-weight snows and whips to
rich, creamy pies and cakes.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]




                      a {G}el can be many desserts


Here are pattern recipes you can prepare to your taste. Make the
traditional Simple Fruit Gel in your favorite fruit flavor, or the new
Quick Fruit Gel, which lets you choose from the rainbow of flavors of
frozen juice concentrates available in your supermarket. Then, just look
at the dazzling variety of desserts you can make from either of these
patterns:


simple fruit gel

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ¼ cup sugar
  ⅛ tsp. salt
  ¾ cup boiling water
  1 cup fruit juice[1], unthawed
  1 Tbsp. lemon juice

Stir gelatine, sugar and salt together well. Pour boiling water over,
stir until gelatine is completely dissolved. Add juices, stir, chill
until firm. Makes 4 servings.

Setting time: 1½ to 3 hours.


quick fruit gel {quick-gel}

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ¾ cup cold water
  ¼ cup sugar
  1 can (6 oz.) frozen juice concentrate[1]
  3 ice cubes

Sprinkle gelatine on cold water in small saucepan. Stir over medium heat
until gelatine is dissolved, 2 to 3 minutes. Remove from heat. Stir in
sugar. Add juice concentrate, ice cubes; stir smooth. Chill until firm.
Makes 4 servings.

Setting time: 25 to 30 minutes.


whips...

Make either fruit gel, and chill until mixture is slightly thickened.
Beat with electric or rotary beater until light, fluffy and double in
volume. Pile in sherbet glasses and chill until firm. Makes 6 to 8
servings.


snows...

Make either fruit gel and chill until mixture is slightly thickened. Add
2 unbeaten egg whites and beat until mixture begins to hold its shape,
is light and fluffy, about 7 or 8 minutes. Turn into mold or serving
dishes, chill until firm. Makes 6 to 8 servings.


sherbet...

Make either fruit gel, using 1 cup sugar (instead of ¼ cup), and 1¾ cups
boiling water (instead of ¾ cup). Add ¼ cup lemon juice. Freeze in
refrigerator tray until mushy, beat well in cold bowl with rotary or
electric beater. Freeze again in two ice trays. Cover with foil, store
in freezer until serving time. Especially delicious with orange, grape
or cranberry juice. Or make tangy lemon or lime sherbet, using just ½
cup lemon or lime juice altogether. Makes 8 servings.




                     {B}ake it in the refrigerator


crazy cake

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  ¾ cup boiling water
  ⅔ cup sugar
  ½ cup fine graham cracker crumbs
  3 egg whites (save yolks for Lemon Sauce*)
  ½ tsp. salt
  2 tsps. vanilla

Sprinkle gelatine on cold water in 3-qt. mixing bowl to soften. Add
boiling water and stir until gelatine is dissolved. Stir in sugar, chill
slightly (15 minutes in refrigerator). In the meantime, sprinkle half of
the graham cracker crumbs over bottom and sides of greased 9-inch square
pan. Add egg whites, salt and vanilla to chilled gelatine mixture. Beat
with rotary or electric beater about 10 minutes, until light, fluffy and
mounding when beater is lifted. Turn into crumb-lined pan; sprinkle with
remaining graham cracker crumbs. Chill ½ hour or until ready to serve.
Cut in 3-inch squares and serve with Lemon Sauce* (prepare sauce while
dessert chills). Makes 9 servings.


*lemon sauce

  3 egg yolks
  ½ cup sugar
  ⅓ cup melted butter or margarine
  3 Tbsps. lemon juice
  1 Tbsp. grated lemon rind
  ⅓ cup heavy cream

Beat egg yolks until thick and lemon colored. Stir in sugar, melted
butter, lemon juice and grated rind. Whip cream, fold into lemon
mixture.


no-bake chocolate birthday cake

Here’s a new kind of birthday “cake”—no baking needed, and your
imagination can turn a simple gelatine into a dessert to suit the taste
of the king or queen of the day.

  4 envelopes Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  1½ cups sugar, divided
  ½ tsp. salt
  1 cup cocoa
  6 eggs, separated
  5 cups milk
  1 Tbsp. vanilla
  Vanilla wafers
  Whipped cream

Mix gelatine, ¾ cup of sugar, salt and cocoa in top of double boiler.
Beat egg yolks and milk together. Add to gelatine mixture. Cook over
boiling water, stirring constantly until gelatine is dissolved, about 5
to 8 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in vanilla. Chill until mixture
mounds slightly when dropped from a spoon. Beat egg whites until stiff.
Beat in remaining ¾ cup sugar. Fold chocolate gelatine mixture into egg
whites. Turn into two 9-inch layer cake pans. Chill until firm. Unmold
one layer on cake plate. Top with flat layer of vanilla wafers. Turn out
second layer of gelatine over this. Decorate and garnish with whipped
cream. Chill until serving time. Makes 12 servings.




                              {P}arty pies


5-minute berry cream pie {quick-gel}
_a quick-gel recipe_

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ¾ cup cold orange juice or water[2]
  1 pint strawberry ice cream[2]
  8-inch baked pie shell or crumb crust

Sprinkle gelatine on juice or cold water to soften, stir over moderate
heat until gelatine is dissolved, about 3 minutes. Spoon ice cream into
hot mixture and stir until melted and smooth. Turn into prepared pie
shell and chill just 5 minutes. Garnish top of pie with fresh or frozen
berries. Makes 6 servings.


no-bake cheesecake pie

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup milk or light cream
  ½ cup sugar
  2 packages (8 oz. each) cream cheese
  2 eggs
  1 tsp. vanilla extract
  9-inch crumb crust
  1 cup commercial sour cream
  1 Tbsp. sugar
  ½ tsp. vanilla extract

Sprinkle gelatine on milk to soften, stir over very low heat until
gelatine is dissolved, about 2 to 3 minutes. Stir in sugar. Beat cheese
until creamy, gradually beat in dissolved gelatine mixture. Add eggs,
beat well, beat in vanilla extract. Pour into prepared crumb crust and
chill in refrigerator until firm. Beat sour cream with remaining sugar
and vanilla until smooth and thick and spread evenly over top of pie to
the edges. Chill again until serving time. Makes 6 to 8 servings.

Diet Tip: Substitute creamed cottage cheese for cream cheese, omit
topping.


tropical chiffon pie

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  1 cup sugar, divided
  ⅛ tsp. salt
  4 eggs, separated
  ½ cup lemon or lime juice
  ¼ cup water
  2 tsps. grated lime or lemon rind
  9-inch pie shell or crumb crust

Mix gelatine, ½ cup sugar and salt in saucepan. Beat egg yolks, juice
and water together, add to gelatine mixture. Cook over low heat,
stirring constantly, until gelatine is dissolved, about 5 minutes.
Remove from heat, stir in grated rind. Chill until mixture mounds
slightly when dropped from a spoon. Beat egg whites stiff, beat in
remaining ½ cup sugar, and fold into gelatine mixture. Turn into pie
shell, chill until firm. Makes 6 to 8 servings.




                           {S}hape a meal...


Add a cold main dish to your repertoire of favorite recipes—perfect for
a special lunch, or a weekend supper when you’ve had a large meal
earlier, and for summer meals when any dish that’s cold is doubly
appealing.

Your secret ingredient can be Knox Unflavored Gelatine, which takes on
the flavor of your favorite foods, combining meat, fish or poultry with
colorful vegetables in a savory gelatine main dish.

To round out an appealing menu, add crisp salad greens and other cold
vegetables, and a choice of salad dressings. A cup of hot soup as
appetizer, or warm rolls or crunchy bread, can accent the cool remainder
of the meal, and satisfy appetites happily. Finish with a favorite
dessert.


quick-gel casserole {quick-gel}

With frozen soups to speed setting, you can make a cold, flavorful main
dish casserole that’s ready to eat just minutes after preparation.

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  1¼ cups milk
  1 can (10¼ oz.) frozen cream of potato soup[3], half thawed
  1½ cups diced ham
  1 cucumber, peeled and diced
  2 Tbsps. minced chives
  3 radishes, sliced
  Chopped parsley for garnish

Sprinkle gelatine on milk, let stand to soften, stir over low heat until
gelatine is dissolved, 2 to 3 minutes. Remove from heat, spoon in frozen
soup and stir until soup thaws and mixture mounds slightly when dropped
from a spoon. Fold in remaining ingredients, chill until firm, about 5
to 10 minutes. Sprinkle with chopped parsley, serve in casserole. Makes
4 servings.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]


dinner ring

Bits of meat, fish or poultry are suspended with crisp vegetables in
this clear, shimmering main dish—mold it in a ring or fancy shape, then
unmold to serve on salad greens. Delicious with potato salad.

  2 envelopes Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  1 can (10½ oz.) beef broth, divided
  1 can (17½ oz.) tomato juice
  ½ tsp. salt
  2 Tbsps. lemon juice
  ¼ tsp. Tabasco
  2 cups diced cooked chicken[4]
  1½ cups chopped celery
  ½ cup chopped cucumber
  ¼ cup sliced stuffed olives, if desired

Sprinkle gelatine on 1 cup of the beef broth to soften. Place over low
heat and stir until gelatine is dissolved, 2 to 3 minutes. Remove from
heat and stir in remaining beef broth, tomato juice, salt, lemon juice
and Tabasco. Chill until mixture mounds slightly when dropped from a
spoon. Fold in remaining ingredients. Turn into a 6-cup ring or other
mold and chill until firm. Unmold to serve. Makes 6 to 8 servings.


easy as pie supper

A cold main dish in a crisp pie shell stars seafood, ham or egg salad in
clever new form, fun to make and to eat.

  2 envelopes Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  1 cup cold water or tomato juice
  1 can (10½ oz.) beef broth
  1 cup mayonnaise
  ½ tsp. salt
  2 Tbsps. lemon juice
  1 cup diced raw vegetables or fruit[5]
  2 cups diced chicken, meat, seafood or hard-cooked eggs
  1 baked 9-inch pie shell
  Chopped parsley for garnish

Sprinkle unflavored gelatine on water to soften, stir over moderate heat
2 to 3 minutes to dissolve. Remove from heat, stir in beef broth,
mayonnaise, salt and lemon juice. Beat mixture smooth with rotary
beater. Chill, stirring occasionally, until mixture mounds slightly when
dropped from a spoon. Fold in remaining ingredients and turn into cooled
pie shell. Sprinkle border with chopped parsley, if desired. Chill until
firm. Makes 6 servings. (Gelatine mixture may also be molded in a pan or
other form, rather than in pastry shell.)

Diet Tip: Use low calorie salad dressing. Omit olives and avocado.


easy cheese pie shell

Add ½ cup grated sharp Cheddar cheese to dry mixture for basic pie crust
recipe or packaged mix, add liquid as usual.




                           {S}alads ahead...


Serve a delicious gelatine salad with the main-course, or for a change,
before (California style) or after the main dish (as in Europe).

what they add... Gelatine salads add coolness, sparkle, interesting
texture—all the wonderful contrasts that make a meal more exciting.
Choose a flavor to complement the rest of the meal and serve a salad
with the shape and style that only gelatine can guarantee.

what they save... There’s no last-minute preparation with a gelatine
salad. Prepare and unmold in advance, to whisk from refrigerator to
table in an instant. With frozen fruits and fruit juice concentrates,
you can now make quick-gel salads in infinite variety.


perfection salad...

The perfect salad is the one that tastes best to you, with your
particular meal. This one can be varied to fit many menus!

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ¼ cup sugar
  ½ tsp. salt
  1¼ cups water, divided
  ¼ cup vinegar
  1 Tbsp. lemon juice
  ½ cup finely shredded cabbage[1]
  1 cup shredded carrot[1]
  1 pimento, cut in small pieces, or 2 Tbsps. chopped red or green
              pepper[1]

Mix gelatine, sugar and salt thoroughly in small saucepan. Add ½ cup of
the water. Place over low heat, stirring constantly until gelatine is
dissolved. Remove from heat and stir in remaining ¾ cup of water,
vinegar and lemon juice. Chill mixture to unbeaten egg white
consistency. Fold in vegetables. Turn into a 2-cup mold or individual
molds, chill until firm. Unmold, garnish with salad greens, serve with
salad dressing. Makes 4 servings.


[1]try these combinations:

  Chopped celery, shredded cabbage, chopped pepper or pimiento
  Shredded carrot, orange sections, diced canned pineapple
  Chopped cucumber and onion
  Drained mixed fruits or cooked mixed vegetables


diet tip:

Make this a really low-calorie salad treat by using artificial sweetener
in place of sugar. Soften gelatine in cold water first.




                         favorite fruit salads


    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]


mixed fruit salad {quick-gel}
_a quick-gel recipe_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  2 Tbsps. sugar
  ⅛ tsp. salt
  ¾ cup cold water
  1 can (6 oz.) frozen juice concentrate[6], unthawed
  1 Tbsp. lemon juice or vinegar
  3 ice cubes
  1½ cups diced fruits—fresh, canned or frozen[6]

Combine gelatine, sugar and salt in saucepan, add water, and stir over
low heat until gelatine dissolves, about 2 to 3 minutes. Remove from
heat. Add frozen concentrate, lemon juice and ice cubes. Stir until
juice and ice melt and the mixture is the consistency of unbeaten egg
white, fold in fruits. Turn into 3-cup mold or 4 to 6 individual molds,
chill until firm, about 25 to 30 minutes. Unmold on greens, serve with
mayonnaise. Makes 4 to 6 servings.


sliced peach salad {quick-gel}
_a quick-gel recipe_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ¼ cup vinegar
  1 can (12 oz.) peach nectar[7]
  Cinnamon stick, dash ginger
  ¼ tsp. salt
  1 pkg. (10 oz.) frozen peaches[7]

Sprinkle gelatine on vinegar, add nectar, spices and salt. Stir over low
heat until gelatine is dissolved, about 3 minutes. Remove from heat.
Discard cinnamon. Stir in frozen fruits; by the time fruit thaws,
mixture will be thickened. Turn into 4-cup mold or individual molds,
chill until firm, about 30 minutes. Unmold, serve on greens with salad
dressing. Makes 4 to 6 servings.


molded waldorf salad

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ¼ cup sugar
  ½ tsp. salt
  1½ cups apple juice, cider or water, divided
  ¼ cup lemon juice
  2 cups diced unpeeled apples
  ½ cup diced celery
  ¼ cup chopped walnuts
  ¼ cup raisins

Mix gelatine, sugar and salt in a saucepan. Stir in ½ cup juice. Stir
over low heat until gelatine is dissolved, about 2 to 3 minutes. Add
remaining liquid, chill until mixture is slightly thickened. Fold in
remaining ingredients. Turn into 4-cup mold and chill until firm. Unmold
on greens, serve with French dressing. Makes 4 to 6 servings.

Diet Tip: Use artificial sweetener; skip raisins and nuts.




                         specialty salad molds


guacamole salad

Serve this Mexican-inspired salad with a main dish, or mold it in a ring
and fill with chicken, egg or tuna salad, or with cooked chilled shrimp
or crab meat.

  2 envelopes Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  4 cups vegetable juice cocktail, divided
  1 garlic clove, crushed
  1-2 Tbsps. chopped chives
  ¼-½ tsp. Tabasco
  2 ripe avocados
  2 Tbsps. lemon juice

Sprinkle gelatine on 1 cup vegetable juice, stir over low heat 2 to 3
minutes until gelatine is dissolved. Remove from heat. Add garlic,
chives and Tabasco with remaining juice. Pour half of aspic mixture into
5-cup mold, chill until nearly firm. Peel and slice avocados, sprinkle
with lemon juice. Arrange on firm aspic, pour remaining aspic over,
chill. Unmold on bed of water cress, and serve with mayonnaise or French
dressing. Makes 8 servings.

Diet Tip: Use green pepper, celery, sliced radishes or slivered cabbage
instead of avocados.


cranberry-orange relish

  1 unpeeled orange, quartered and seeded[8]
  2 cups cranberries
  1 cup sugar
  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  1 cup bottled cranberry juice cocktail, divided

Put orange and cranberries through food chopper. Add sugar, mix well.
Sprinkle gelatine on half the cranberry juice to soften, place over low
heat, and stir 2 to 3 minutes until gelatine is dissolved. Remove from
heat, stir in remaining ½ cup cranberry juice and orange-cranberry
mixture. Turn into 6 individual molds or 3-cup ring mold. Unmold to
serve with ham, chicken, turkey, or with any cold meat.

Diet Tip: Use artificial sweetener.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]




                         {P}arty snacks any day


A snack is probably your most frequent meal—make it something special!
It’s easy to gel a nibble with delicious new flavor and good nutrition.
When you open the refrigerator door, there will be a snack with style,
ready for you or for an impromptu party.


golives

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

Gelatine plus olives equals “golives”—a delicious snack spiced with
vegetable juice flavor:

  3 envelopes Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  2 cups vegetable juice cocktail
  1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce
  1 tsp. lemon juice
  Pinch sugar
  Dash cayenne
  ½ cup chopped olives

Sprinkle gelatine on 1 cup vegetable juice cocktail in a saucepan, stir
over medium heat 2 to 3 minutes, until gelatine is dissolved. Add
remaining juice, Worcestershire, lemon juice and seasonings. Cool to
consistency of unbeaten egg whites, fold in chopped olives and pour into
an ice cube tray. Chill until firm in refrigerator (don’t freeze). Cut
into diamonds or squares. Set on plate, keep handy in refrigerator for
zesty nibbles.


cola fruit salad

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

Fun as a TV snack, with cookies, salted nuts and a beverage.

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  2 Tbsps. sugar
  ¼ cup water
  Juice of 1 lemon
  1½ cups cola or ginger ale
  1½ cups mixed diced fruits (no fresh or frozen pineapple)

Mix gelatine and sugar in a saucepan. Add water and lemon juice and stir
constantly over low heat, about 2 to 3 minutes, until gelatine and sugar
are dissolved. Remove from heat, add cola. Chill until mixture is the
consistency of unbeaten egg white. Fold in mixed diced fruit. Turn into
6 individual molds, chill until firm. Unmold and serve with whipped
cream. Makes 6 servings.


fruit jewels

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

This gelatine treat has a refreshing fruit flavor. It’s a delicious new
way to enjoy the daily envelope of unflavored gelatine which has proven
helpful in correcting problem fingernails—see back cover. One third the
quantity of Fruit Jewels recipe equals one envelope of gelatine.

  3 envelopes Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  ¾ cup boiling water
  1 can (6 oz.) frozen juice or punch concentrate[9], unthawed

Sprinkle gelatine on cold water in a bowl. Let stand a few minutes to
soften. Add boiling water, stir until gelatine is dissolved. Stir in
juice or punch concentrate until melted. Pour into 8-inch pie pan or
cake pan or other small shallow pan. Chill 30 minutes. Cut in bars or
squares to serve, or cut in fun shapes with small cookie cutters.




                            {D}ieters’ tips


Calorie counters enjoy a special bonus when they learn the knack of
giving new form to diet foods with unflavored gelatine. Lean meats, fish
and poultry go into savory main-dish molds, and the nourishing fruits
and vegetables so important to the dieter are delicious in gelatine
salads and desserts. Try the low-calorie versions of favorite gelatine
recipes below.


golden salad

  1 can (8 oz.) low-calorie pineapple tidbits
  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  Non-caloric sweetener to equal ¼ cup sugar
  ¼ tsp. salt
  ¼ cup orange juice
  ¼ cup vinegar
  ½ cup cut-up orange sections
  ½ cup coarsely grated carrots

Drain liquid from pineapple into a saucepan. Sprinkle gelatine on this.
Stir over low heat until gelatine is dissolved, about 2 to 3 minutes.
Add sweetener and salt. Remove from heat and stir in orange juice and
vinegar. Chill to unbeaten egg white consistency. Fold in pineapple
tidbits, orange sections and carrots. Turn into a 3-cup mold or
individual molds and chill until firm. Unmold on serving platter,
garnish with greens, and serve with low-calorie salad dressing. Makes 6
servings, 38 calories each.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]


applesauce whip {quick-gel}
_a quick-gel recipe_

  1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine
  ½ cup cold water
  Non-caloric sweetener to equal ¼ cup sugar
  3 ice cubes
  2 Tbsps. lemon juice
  2 cups cold, unsweetened applesauce (or low-calorie applesauce)

Sprinkle gelatine on cold water in saucepan to soften. Place over medium
heat, stirring constantly until gelatine is dissolved, about 2 to 3
minutes. Remove from heat; stir in sweetener and ice cubes, until cubes
melt. Stir in lemon juice and applesauce. Beat with rotary beater until
light. Turn into serving dishes. Makes 6 servings, just 37 calories
each!




                               FOOTNOTES


[1]_Use any flavor fruit juice, adjusting sugar to taste. An enzyme in
    fresh or frozen pineapple juice prevents setting. Cook these 2
    minutes before using with gelatine. (This will lengthen setting time
    of Quick Fruit Gel.)_

[2]_Other delicious flavor combinations: cold coffee and chocolate ice
    cream, apricot nectar and peach ice cream, orange juice and banana
    ice cream._

[3]_More combinations for frozen-soup casseroles: New England style clam
    chowder with salmon, tuna or other cooked fish, cucumber, radishes,
    celery; green pea with ham soup with ham or bologna, crisp pepper;
    cream of shrimp soup with any seafood, sliced olives, slivered
    almonds._

[4]_Or use turkey, pork, veal, beef, shrimp, crab meat, tuna._

[5]_Use any combination of raw vegetables that flatters the flavor of
    the main ingredient: grapes and green pepper for chicken; cabbage,
    onion and pickles for ham; stuffed olives, celery and chives for
    eggs. Don’t forget avocado, apples, cucumbers, radishes with other
    meats._

[6]_Use any flavor fruit juice, adjusting sugar to taste. Do not use
    frozen pineapple juice or uncooked pineapple with fruits. See
    footnote, page 6._

[7]_Substitute other fruit nectars, use frozen mixed fruits (no
    pineapple) or berries for a change._

[8]_Substitute 2 tangerines or 1 apple for orange; or add ¼ cup chopped
    nuts._

[9]_Any flavor except pineapple._


                             _TURN THE PAGE
                      ... to learn the Knox secret
                   of maintaining your diet happily!_




                        how to be a happy dieter


For a protein pick-up that helps your dieting will power, make the KNOX
DRINK with juice, bouillon, skim milk or water, and drink about one half
hour before meals. You’ll eat the foods you like along with the family,
but with Knox taking the edge off your hunger, you’ll eat less and like
it.




                              nail beauty


If you have problem nails, you can prove for yourself what medical tests
have shown ... a daily supplement of 1 envelope of Knox has been
effective in correcting 7 out of 10 cases of brittle, splitting nails!
Drink the KNOX DRINK daily, making it with fruit juice, vegetable juice,
bouillon or water, or enjoy your daily envelope of Knox in the new
delicious fun-to-eat fruit bar form on page 14.




                             the KNOX drink


Fill a glass with about 1 cup of fruit or vegetable juice, milk or
water. Pour in 1 envelope Knox Unflavored Gelatine, whisking lightly
with a fork for smooth dispersal of gelatine. Drink at once. _For a hot
Knox Drink_, sprinkle 1 envelope Knox on ¼ cup cold water. Add ¾ cup hot
broth (or 1 bouillon cube and ¾ cup boiling water). Stir until gelatine
and bouillon are dissolved.

    [Illustration: KNOX]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Gel It!, by Anonymous

